In his letter to the Ephesians, the Apostle Paul used a suit of armor to illustrate the spiritual
protection needed by a servant of Jehovah.
He may have been thinking of the armor worn by a Roman soldier.
Paul first mentions a soldier's belt.
He carried his sword and was distinguished by metal plates, buckles, and other decorations.
The breastplate consisted of overlapping horizontal strips of iron, bent to fit the soldiers
torso.
They were fastened with leather straps, metal hooks, and buckles.
His upper body was also covered in strips of iron, a fastened to leather.
Although his movement was restricted by the heavy armor, the soldiers' vital organs
were protected.
When marching into battle, a soldier wore durable, sandal-like boots.
These were made by fastening three layers of leather together.
The soles were studded with metal nails to grip the ground.
The large shield carried by a Roman Legionnaire was rectangular and covered in from his shoulders
to his knees.
The shield protected him from the blows of a weapon or airborne missiles.
The helmet was an essential part of a soldier's military equipment.
It was lined and padded for comfort, and had a chin strap to keep it tightly in place.
The helmet's unique design warded off blows, directed at a soldier's head, neck, and
face.
The sword, it measured about 60 cm long.
The blade was double edged.
At the base of the grip, the pommel prevented the sword from slipping out of the soldier's
hand.
The shield soldiers practice with their weapons every day.
Each piece in the suit of armor played a vital role to protect the soldier in battle.